---
title: "Shades of White: Impacts of Population Dynamics and TV Viewership on Available TV Spectrum"
category: 'journal'
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2019-02-01-CogTV.html
excerpt: 'This paper is to propose a new spectrum sharing paradigm in Television (TV) spectrum based on the studies on population dynamics and TV usages. It aims to address the urban spectrum crisis left by current TV white space regulations, which mainly benefit rural areas. '
date: 2019-02-01
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1109/TVT.2019.2892867'
citation: 'Zhongyuan Zhao, Mehmet C. Vuran, Demet Batur, and Eylem Ekici, &quot;Shades of White: Impacts of Population Dynamics and TV Viewership on Available TV Spectrum,&quot; <i>IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology</i>, Vol. 68, No. 3, pp2427-2442, March 2019.'
---

Abstract
===
Current regulations leave a few TV white spaces in populated urban areas where spectrum shortage is mostly experienced. As TV set feedback becomes essential in the next generation terrestrial TV standard, an opportunistic TV spectrum sharing based on TV receiver activity information and transmit power control is proposed to exploit the underutilized active TV channels. Based on investigation of the spatial-spectral-temporal characteristics of TV receiver activities, analytical models are developed to capture the spatio-temporal distributions of available spectrum and corresponding capacity. The influence of multiple factors such as feedback delay, spectrum handover overhead, ranking order and distribution of TV channel popularity are discussed and modeled. The proposed power control mechanism is verified through experiments at representative campus and residential environments. Empirical data-based simulations and geographic analyses are conducted to evaluate the developed models, and further profile the spectrum opportunities within a cell, across New York City (NYC), and other 273 cities in the United States. In NYC, the proposed solution provides a 3.8-11.7-fold increase of average spectrum availability, and 2.5-6.6-fold increase of capacity from current regulations. 
By investigating the feasibility and prospects of this approach, this paper intends to motivate further discussions in policy, business, and privacy aspects to reach its significant potential. 

_Key words_: TV White Space, Black Space, Cognitive Radio Networks, Dynamic Spectrum Access, TV Ratings.

Download [paper]({{site.baseurl}}/files/CogTV_TVT_Oct_2018.pdf), [supplemental materials]({{site.baseurl}}/files/CogTV_TVT_Oct_2018_supplemental.pdf)

_History_ : First Received: May 21, 2018, Revision: Aug 24, 2018, Accepted: Dec 7, 2018, Published: March 2019

[Longer (Hidden) history]({{site.baseurl}}/posts/2018/12/news-cogtv-journal-accepted/)

Recommended citation: 

Zhongyuan Zhao, Mehmet C. Vuran, Demet Batur, and Eylem Ekici, "Shades of White: Impacts of Population Dynamics and TV Viewership on Available TV Spectrum," IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, Accepted for publication.