---
title: "A city-wide experimental testbed for the next generation wireless networks"
category: 'journal'
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2020-10-23-CoSeC-RAN.html
excerpt: 'This paper is to propose a new spectrum sharing paradigm in Television (TV) spectrum based on the studies on population dynamics and TV usages. It aims to address the urban spectrum crisis left by current TV white space regulations, which mainly benefit rural areas. '
date: 2020-10-23
venue: 'Ad Hoc Networks'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adhoc.2020.102305'
citation: 'Zhongyuan Zhao, Mehmet C. Vuran, Baofeng Zhou, Mohammad M.R. Lunar, Zahra Aref, David P. Young, Warren Humphrey, Steve Goddard, Garhan Attebury, Blake France, &quot; A city-wide experimental testbed for the next generation wireless networks,&quot; <i>Ad Hoc Networks</i>, Vol. 111, pp102305, ISSN 1570-8705, 2021.'
---

Abstract
===
To facilitate research in dynamic spectrum access, 5G, vehicular networks, underground wireless communications, and radio frequency machine learning, a city-wide experimental testbed is developed to provide realistic radio environment, standardized experimental configurations, reusable datasets, and advanced computational resources. The testbed contains 5 cognitive radio sites, and covers 1.1 square miles across two campuses of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and a public street in the city of Lincoln, Nebraska. Each site is equipped with a 4x4 MIMO software-defined radio transceiver with 20Gbps fronthaul connectivity. Additional cognitive radio transceivers with an underground 2x2 MIMO antenna are included in a site. High speed fronthaul network based on dedicated fiber connects the 5 sites to a cloud-based central unit for data processing and storage. The testbed provides researchers rich computational resources such as arrays of CPUs and GPUs at the cloud and FPGAs at both the edge and fronthaul network. Developed via the collaboration of the university, city, and industrial partners, this testbed will facilitate education and researches in academic and industrial communities.

_Key words_: Dynamic spectrum access; Internet of Advanced Things; Spectrum sensing; Radio Frequency Machine Learning; Underground radio; USRP

Download [paper]({{site.baseurl}}/files/CogTV_TVT_Oct_2018.pdf), [supplemental materials]({{site.baseurl}}/files/CogTV_TVT_Oct_2018_supplemental.pdf)

_History_ : Received 17 January 2020; Received in revised form 27 July 2020; Accepted 14 September 2020

Recommended citation: 

Zhongyuan Zhao, Mehmet C. Vuran, Demet Batur, and Eylem Ekici, "Shades of White: Impacts of Population Dynamics and TV Viewership on Available TV Spectrum," <i>IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology</i>, Vol. 68, No. 3, pp2427-2442, March 2019.